BALESTRAND TO STALHEIM (stalheim crossed out)
AUGUST 23rd 
At breakfast a HUGE Smorgesbrot
Everything imagineable onthe big
table.Even picklescheese, jelliez, salads. cold cuts etc e 
I painted a little on my glacier' Went along the dock
and up the road to Anna Mundel's after seeing her sign 
Handwerk. 8 mts. 8 minutes. I get a sweater and two wool 
scarbes. Then we returned- stopping at an artists pretty 
house- things for sale(a and l overlapping) in the studio.Cards folders etc.
A very noisy dog- white Spitz with bad manners barked at us.
Gail then went swimming. Pretty
cocold. But she said it was wonderful And
went in and out several imes.
I painted somemore. After lunch we gote hotel hotel dory- placed by the little dock for use of hotel guests- and rowed about a little Pieces of rope to hold the oars and such narrow blades on the oars
After dinner Otto drove us up the pretty
narrow road beyond the hotel.Very nice houses on both sides of the raod. I suppose they are summer residences for people from Oslo
or other places. At least some of them looked so Had the green duffle bag in and did a tall job repackin
BALESTRAND TO STALHEIMAUGUST" 24th.
After another sumtous breakfast we started off on the
10.30 ferry boat.The manager nad his wife were on the dock and waved goodby.
A little 2 1/2 year old boy
was helping his father push a low cart up the incline to the hotel
Noticed again the orange salt water rock sea week along the edges of the fjo yd.
13 car encluding one tank
truck on the ferry.Conversed with very nice person a Mrs Maxwell and her brother Mr Clothier.She from BrynMahr.
Arrived Grinde at 11.45.Drove along until we came to a little ferry- went across the water by aid of wire ropes.
We couldn 't(u&l overlapping) get on But ti came directly ba ck for us.
It was getting late for lunch but I had my coat pockets full of crackers from Balestra nd breakfast tabl
On trips everyone is advised to wear a caot with big pockets for this purpose.
We drove
along the edge of the largest fjoyd- like a big lake lake.It is also the deepest.About further to the sea.
About 3000 feet deep. Lots of sea gulls about.
Very few cars on the road. Drivers very polite
