No one drives very fast- quite the opposite in fact, if another car is coming t owrd us one or the other drive will quickly look the situation over and back up into a place wide enough so the other car can pass. Many tourists from these countries and Englland(g&l overlapping) etc seem to travel the sturdy little fjoyd steamers and between fjoyds by bus. The Belgians build a smallish red bus with a good deal of glass- high wide windows and glass over the roof- where shirred curtaions can be pulled over when the sun is too hot.
BUT the great HUGE busses go skimmimg
along over these hair-raising troads(t crossed out) as well. The steamer pick up and carry along, all sorts of merchandise for the people living in the small villages. Also all mail as well as suppies for the hotels and little inns are del livered in this manner. At Kaupanger 2.30 had a sort of lunch in a bran new lunch room,iwith a porch on second floor where the tourists were busy with coffee etc. In a little shop below I got some post cards also a funny wooden hook(to copy for the bazaar in Greenwich' )Took funny little ferry Sogndal to Loftsnes- about 5 minutes across
Run attached to wire cables.
A bridge is BEING
built across this narrow place. A little girl was selling plums in tiny papercornicopias.
Very sweet and good.
after continuing
alo ng the "river" we took the larger steamer on which were sandwiched in about a dozen cars plus a lot of people - and proceeded up the big fioyd. Grand views at erevy turn. And
of course many waterfalls.This is the
deepest and largest fjoyd as before mentioned'
Arrived at Gudvangen
end of fjoyd- that is, end of this "arm" of it.There was some excitement in untangling the motor cars and trucks. Then we started UP THE GRADE to the Stalheim
hotel-way on top of an especially high spot.
A red building sprawled all over the place.A Mrs Maxwell and her brother Mr Clothier were also st opp
same hotel So we sawthem later and discussed "DOONERS"
The funny feather lined puffs that are used on ALL beds everywhere around here. These are just laid on the beds and not tucked in.
Rugs all around walls in dining room
a great ski place.maps of the runs all adound the rooms.
